#summary Command line arguments

There are several places where you may need to use command line arguments.
Do not confuse them. The switch from one group will not be working in the another place!

=[ConEmuArgs GUI args]=
These switches are used for changing ConEmu window behavior or running specific commands (shells)
in the ConEmu's tabs or splits. In the following example all between ‘`ConEmu`’ and ‘`-cmd`’ are
GUI arguments.

{{{
ConEmu -mintsa -config "Maintainance" -dir "C:\Project" -cmd git fetch
}}}

=[ConEmuC#ConEmuC.exe_command_line_switches ConEmuC args]=
ConEmuC is a console part of ConEmu. It serves a console window acting a console server
in the ConEmu-ConEmuC pair. Also, it can be used to run some checks (do your console is run in ConEmu, etc.),
to execute GuiMacro's, to make MemoryDump's, and so on.

{{{
ConEmuC -isconemu & if errorlevel 2 (echo Not in ConEmu) else if errorlevel 1 (echo In ConEmu)
}}}

{{{
ConEmuC -GuiMacro:0 print "Echo abc\n"
}}}

=Shell args=
Generally speaking, ConEmu has no common with shells.
The shell, is what you run in the ConEmu's tab or split.
Read more here: LaunchNewTab.

{{{
cmd /k ver & your_batch_script.cmd
}}}

{{{
powershell -NoProfile -NoExit -Command "Import-Module List.ps1 -ArgumentList 'Tasks'"
}}}

{{{
bash.exe --login -i
}}}

=Console args=
That is much like as ‘Shell args’, with only difference that ConEmuC can process some
commands internally, before running you shell: ‘set’, ‘chcp’, ‘title’. They can be used
in [SettingsTasks Tasks], after ‘-cmd’ ConEmu's switch and so on.

{{{
"set PATH=C:\MinGW\bin;%PATH%" & set MSYSTEM=MINGW64 & chcp 65001 & sh -l -i
}}}

=Task parameters=
When you do configure [SettingsTasks tasks] you will see ‘Task parameters’ edit field.
That is the place to:
  * force the task to be run in the special directory;
  * give the started tab a specific icon;
  * when used from the jump list force the task to be run in the existing ConEmu window.
