<font size="4">Contents</font>

=[http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=ru&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fcode.google.com%2Fp%2Fconemu-maximus5%2Fwiki%2FConEmuFAQ%3Fshow%3Dcontent%26wl%3Den FAQ (autotranslated)]=

----------------------------------------------------------------------

=Translation (work in progress)=

<font size="4">Contents</font>
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" /> 

==General==

===Q. I found a bug, what should I do?===
A. First, make sure that the bug doesn't occur without !ConEmu (e.g. running FAR directly, not via !ConEmu). Next, make sure that the bug wasn't fixed [http://code.google.com/p/conemu-maximus5/downloads/list in the latest ConEmu version]. If the bug persists, [http://code.google.com/p/conemu-maximus5/issues/list file a thoroughly detailed issue].


===Q. What about !ConMan, alternative console, etc.?===
A. Everything is built into !ConEmu, except better ;) The flag '!MultiCon' should be enabled. Furthermore, using !ConMan with !ConEmu is NOT RECOMMENDED. A new console can be created using a keyboard shortcut (Win-W by default), as well as adding -new_console to the executed command. The current console can be closed or restarted (Win-~). The long output of a console command or program can be opened in Far's editor/viewer (Ctrl-O). Switching between consoles can be done with Win-Q. Switching between consoles and tabs can be done with Ctrl-Tab.

===Q. What is the purpose of !ConEmu.cer (digital certificate)?===
A. For validation of the integrity of !ConEmu's executable files.

A. Windows SmartScreen blocks execution of files (Installer) from "unverified publishers".

A. If the certificate is imported into the list of trusted root certificates (for the user, machine or domain), launching !ConEmu "As Administrator" (Vista & Win7) will display a less scary warning (program name + "verified publisher: !ConEmu-Maximus5" instead of the scary "unverified publisher" window).

A. If the certificate is imported into the list of trusted root certificates, certain antivirus software (e.g. KIS) will consider the program as "trusted".

===Q. How to import the certificate to the list of trusted root certificates?===
A. In Vista+ one can simply open the certificate file, and click the "Install certificate" button.

A. Via MMC -> Certificates snap-in.

A. Using the utility !CertMgr from the Windows SDK:
{{{
   "C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v7.0\Bin\CertMgr" -add -c ConEmu.cer -s root
}}}

A. For details, see here: [Certificate Certificate installation]

===Q. Not all characters (hieroglyphs, ellipses, copyright symbols etc.) are displayed===
A. For some reason, !ConEmu failed to change the font of the real console. Select 'Debug' → 'Properties' from !ConEmu's system menu, and on the 'Font' tab choose a !TrueType font.

A. A missing or non-Unicode font was specified in !ConEmu's settings (Settings-!ConEmu.reg, '!ConsoleFontName' parameter).

===Q. Is it possible to run a GUI application in a !ConEmu tab?===
A. Yes, with certain GUI applications. Example: Putty, Notepad, and others.

===Q. How to launch an application in a new !ConEmu tab?===
A. Indicate the application in the 'Create new console' field of the new console creation dialog. This dialog can be opened by using the 'New console...' item from !ConEmu's system menu, or by using the corresponding keyboard shortcut (Win-W or Win-Shift-W by default).

A. A new tab can be opened from an existing tab (e.g. from Far) by adding a '-new_console' parameter to the application's command line. Example: `putty.exe -new_console`.

===Q. How to use the '-new_console' parameter?===
A. The setting 'Inject !ConEmuHk' must be enabled in !ConEmu's configuration. Afterwards, if !ConEmu sees the '-new_console' parameter in a launched application's command line, it is removed from the command line, and the application/command is ran in a new !ConEmu tab.

A. Additional launch options are available: `-new_console[:bh[N]caru[:user:pwd]]`
   * `b` - Create background tab
   * `h<height>` - Set buffer height: e.g., h0 - disable buffer, h9999 - enable buffer with 9999 lines
   * `n` - Disable 'Press Enter or Esc to close console' message
   * `c` - Explicitly enable 'Press Enter or Esc to close console' (default)
   * `a` - !RunAs shell verb (as Admin on Vista+, login/password in Win2k and WinXP)
   * `r` - Run as restricted user
   * `u` - Open !ConEmu choose user dialog
   * `u:<user>:<pwd>` - specify user/pwd in args. MUST BE THE LAST OPTION.
*Example:* «`"%ConEmuBaseDir%\ConEmuC.exe" /c dir "-new_console:bh9999c" c:\ /s`». Note that when launching from Far Manager, «`"%ConEmuBaseDir%\ConEmuC.exe" /c `» can be omitted.

A. For comfort, when using Far, one can configure a macro bound to !ShiftEnter (see example in the distribution package).

A. Pay attention to the parameter `-cur_console:h[N]`, which allows controlling long output of commands or applications when running them from [ConEmuFAQ#Far_Manager Far Manager].

===Q. Which environment variables does !ConEmu set?===
A. `ConEmuDir` - folder, containing !ConEmu.exe; `ConEmuBaseDir` - folder, containing ConEmuC.exe; `ConEmuArgs` - arguments specified to !ConEmu.exe; `ConEmuHWND` - virtual console window handle (child window of !ConEmu).

===Q. Launched program outputs nothing.===
A. Certain programs work with the console's alternative buffer - e.g. telnet.exe, launched without parameters. A history of tis issue can be read here: [http://code.google.com/p/conemu-maximus5/issues/detail?id=65 Issue 65]. The problem is fixed in version 120504 (the «Inject ConEmuHk» flag must be set). In previous versions, the workaround was to show the real console (!CtrlWinAltSpace), and temporarily work with it.

A. As a result of a !ShellExecuteEx bug, on certain operating systems the console process was launched with an incorrect output buffer handle. To fix the problem, the «Inject !ConEmuHk» flag must be set. If the problem persists - create a new [http://code.google.com/p/conemu-maximus5/issues/entry Issue] with a detailed description of the problem, and attach the debug log of the launched program: «Settings -> Debug -> Shell and processes».

===Q. A program does not work in «Long console output» mode.===
A. Certain programs don't work correctly with a long console buffer. Some examples are bview, Aurora, and others. There are multiple solutions:
  * Open the program in a new !ConEmu tab with scrolling disabled. Example: "bview.exe -new_console:h"
  * Indicate that scrolling should not be enabled. Example: "ac.exe -cur_console:h"
  * Alternatively, entirely disable 'Long console output' in the 'Tabs' page of the 'Settings' dialog, if long console output is not required.



==Distribution package==

===Q. What is the purpose of «`ConEmuSetup.*.exe`»?===
A. Using the installer is recommended on computers with UAC enabled (Vista and higher), if you intend to install !ConEmu to "Program Files".

A. The installer also contains some additional files, e.g. !KeyEvents.exe.

===Q. What is the purpose of ConEmuC.exe (!ConEmuC64.exe)?===
A. This is the "console" component of !ConEmu. It communicates information from the real console to the graphical shell (!ConEmu.exe). This process also controls automatic buffer resizing when running commands/applications, and attaching "new" consoles (Shift-Enter in FAR) to !ConEmu.

===Q. What is the purpose of the Far plugin !ConEmu.dll (!ConEmu.x64.dll)?===
A. This module provides communication between Far Manager and !ConEmu.
  * It is required for certain extended features (tabs, Drag-and-Drop).
  * It is required for !TrueColor in Far 3.x.
  * It is required for certain other plugins (e.g. !FarHints).
  * It displays the hidden real console (with FAR), should ConEmu crash.
  * After a console detach (Ctrl-Alt-Tab), it spawns a new !ConEmu for the new console.
  * It is required to retrieve the long output buffer for console applications.
  * It is required for proper mouse function when using «far /w» (System\!WindowMode=1).

===Q. What is the purpose of !ConEmuHk.dll (!ConEmuHk64.dll)?===
A. This module is injected into applications ran in !ConEmu. It is required to implement certain options, as well as work around multiple problems manifesting both with and without !ConEmu. 
  * Z-order of GUI dialogues (without it, dialogues will appear behind !ConEmu's window);
  * Proper function of GUI-EMenu (without !ConEmuHk`*`.dll it refuses to close);
  * Implements the flags "No zone check", "Ascii sort...", "Hourglass if not responding";
  * Implements the "-new_console" parameter;
  * Works around !ShellExecute problems (when batch file output does not appear in the console);
  * Works around chcp hangs;
  * Implements "Shell and processes" monitoring;
  * Implements hosting of GUI applications in a !ConEmu tab, etc.

===Q. What is the purpose of !ExtendedConsole.dll (!ExtendedConsole64.dll)?===
A. This file implements support for the extended console feature in Far 3.x, and must be placed in the same directory as Far.exe. In its presence and enabled «!TrueMod support» option, it is possible to configure and use arbitrary (24-bit) colors and styles (bold/italic/underline) in Far Manager.




==Portable version==
===Q. Can !ConEmu be portable?===
A. Yes. To enable portable configuration, it is enough to create an _empty_ file «!ConEmu.xml» in the same directory as ConEmuC.exe or !ConEmu.exe. The file may be created after !ConEmu is loaded, which allows copying settings loaded from the registry to the XML file.

===Q. When attempting to use «!ConEmu.xml», the error message «XML setting file can not be used!» appears===
A. The error message explains itself: the interface IID_IXMLDOMDocument is not registered in the system registry. To avoid registering it, you can copy the files «msxml3.dll» and «msxml3r.dll» in the same directory as ConEmuC.exe or !ConEmu.exe. The versions from Windows XP are preferred - they have the least dependencies, which allows them to work in Windows 2000.

===Q. Can !ConEmu make launched applications portable?===
A. This feature is under development - complete registry interception for launched applications is planned.



==Updates==
===Q. Can !ConEmu update automatically?===
A. Yes. !ConEmu can check for new versions on launch, every hour, or by user request (System menu -> Help -> Check for updates).

===Q. What are the capabilities of the automatic updater?===
A. You can configure updates however you like it.
  * Proxy support.
  * Selection between «stable» or «alpha» builds.
  * In the presence of a new version, !ConEmu can ask for confirmation before downloading the package (archive or installer).
  * If !ConEmu was installed using the installer, and the install path for !ConEmu.exe (or !ConEmu64.exe) coincides with the current process, updating is done using the installer («`ConEmuSetup.*.exe`»).
  * Otherwise, updating is done using the 7-zip archive.
  * Updating from the archive requires that file compression software ([http://www.7-zip.org/ 7-Zip] or [http://www.rarlab.com/ WinRAR]) is installed.
  * By default, packages are downloaded to %TEMP% and deleted after installation is complete.
  * However, you can indicate any directory, and choose not to delete installed packages.
  * The installation command is ran from a temporary .cmd-file, launched in the directory containing !ConEmu.exe. The .cmd-file is created in %TEMP%.
    * The default installer command is: `"%1" /p:%3 /qr`. It launches the corresponding (x86/x64) MSI package with the `/qr` parameter (silent update).
    * The default archiver command is: `<archiver> x -y "%1"`. `<archiver>` is substituted with the full path to any file compression software, capable of unpacking 7-Zip archives: [http://www.7-zip.org/ 7zg.exe, 7z.exe], [http://www.rarlab.com/ Unrar.exe, WinRar.exe], etc.
  * Launching the update script (.cmd-file) is done after !ConEmu closes (all tabs are closed), if the user consents.
  * Before launching the update script, !ConEmu checks that no other !ConEmu windows are open.
  * After a successful update, you can run any command or script (via cmd.exe). For example, you can copy the new files to other directories, if you have multiple !ConEmu installations on your computer. By default, the file !ConEmuUpdate.info is created in the same directory as !ConEmu.exe, containing a timestamp of the last update.
  * New versions are polled from [http://conemu-maximus5.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ConEmu/version.ini this URL]. This address can be configured in the registry or XML using the "Update.!VerLocation", should the need arise (e.g. centralized updating in a networked environment?).




==x64 issues==

===Q. What is the purpose of the files ConEmuC.exe, ConEmuCD.dll and !ConEmuHk.dll in 64-bit OS?===
A. These files are required for launching 32-bit applications, as well as functioning of the 32-bit version of !ConEmu. You will likely at some point need to run a 32-bit console application from !ConEmu - without these files, it would not be possible. Out of principle, one can use the 64-bit !ConEmu64.exe, which is available in the «`ConEmuSetup.*.exe`» package - it launches !ConEmuC64.exe as the root console process.

===Q. What is the purpose of the files !ConEmuC64.exe, ConEmuCD64.dll and !ConEmuHk64.dll in the 32-bit version of !ConEmu?===
A. These files are required to run 64-bit applications in 64-bit OS.

===Q. After running the commands start, echo (and other cmd.exe commands) on 64-bit systems, an error similar to "File not found. Cannot execute. start" appears===
A. This is most likely caused by the absence of !ConEmuC64.exe and accompanying !ConEmuHk64.dll, ConEmuCD64.dll.

===Q. Attempts to launch applications (from Far Manager) causes a system error such as: «Error launching application (0xc0000142). Click "OK" to exit.»===
A. The cause is as of yet undiscovered - it is suspected to be a problem in Windows. Note that the error also appears without !ConEmu. To restore proper function, restart the console (e.g. using Win-~).

===Q. What is going on with environment variables in 64-bit OS?===
A. !ConEmu does not control environment variables.



==Configuration==

===Q. Is it possible to set up !ConEmu to open multiple tabs on startup (e.g. Far, CMD, !PowerShell)?===
A. Yes. Use a startup command file. Example - create *startup.txt* with the contents:
{{{
>E:\Source\FARUnicode\trunk\unicode_far\Debug.32.vc\far.exe
*/BufferHeight 400 cmd
/BufferHeight 1000 powershell
}}}
and run !ConEmu like this:
{{{
conemu.exe /cmd @startfile.txt
}}}
Each line in the file corresponds to a launched command.
You may specify the console buffer height using the /!BufferHeight parameter.
If the line starts with "`>`", this tab will be active on startup.
If the line starts with "`*`", this command will be ran with administrator privileges.

===Q. Duplicate Far Manager windows===
A. The real console was not hidden. Check the 'Visible' flag on the 'Features' tab in the 'Settings' dialog, or this registry value:
{{{
[HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\ConEmu\.Vanilla]
"ConVisible"=hex:00
}}}

===Q. How to configure a bitmap font?===
A. The bitmap fonts selectable in the standard console's properties are actually the Terminal font. For example, the bitmap '8 x 12' font is 'Terminal 12 x 8' in !ConEmu, '12 x 16' -> 'Terminal 16 x 12', etc.
   Take note: The 'Charset' field must be set to 'OEM'.
   Personally, I prefer 'Fixedsys 16 x 8', which is absent in the standard console.

A. In the font list you may directly select e.g. `[Raster Fonts 8x12]`.

===Q. Why are horizontal lines (drawn using box drawing characters) discontinuous?===
A. In some fonts, the width of the corresponding box drawing characters is shorter than the font's declared average character width, which !ConEmu uses to determine the size of box drawing characters. To get rid of the artifacts, enable the checkbox «Fix Far borders» and increase the width of the "frames" font. The corresponding settings are on the 'Main' tab in the 'Settings' dialog.



==Far Manager==

===Q. Why don't tabs work?===
A. In the plugin !ConEmu.dll (!ConEmu.x64.dll) installed?

A. When using the installer, the !ConEmu.dll plugin might have been installed to an incorrect directory (it must be installed in a subdirectory of the Plugins directory for Far.exe). The installer might have failed to locate Far.exe's location, if Far Manager wasn't installed using the MSI package. The easiest solution is to uninstall and reinstall !ConEmu, but make sure that the 'Far Manager plugins' field points to the correct directory.

A. Is the flag 'Enable Tabs' enabled in settings? If the checkbox is in the indeterminate (3rd) state, tabs will only appear when a viewer/editor is opened.

===Q. Why doesn't Drag-n-Drop (plugin) work?===
A. «Shell style Drag and Drop» is built-in !ConEmu and is configured on the 'Far Manager' tab of the 'Settings' window. !ConEmu supports dragging files out of Far and onto other applications (Explorer, GIMP, etc.) and dropping files into Far (onto the panel or command-line) from other applications. For proper support of «Shell style Drag and Drop», the Far plugin !ConEmu.dll (!ConEmu.x64.dll) must be installed. !ConEmu can drag files with both the left (LDrag flag) as well as right (RDrag) mouse buttons. Optionally, a modifier key can be configured (e.g. drag files only with the left mouse button and when LCtrl is held down).

A. Screenshots and some explanations can be seen/read here: Issue 527.

A. 3rd-party Drag-n-Drop plugins were never supported, are not supported and will not be supported, as this functionality is built into !ConEmu.

===Q. How to close a tab (viewer/editor/Far) with the mouse?===
A. A Ctrl + Right-click will activate the tab and send a close request to Far Manager. You can redefine the macro on the 'Far Manager' tab of the 'Settings' dialog ('Close tab' field).

A. A simple right-click will activate the tab and display the context menu, from which you may select 'Close'.

===Q. Mouse events (clicks, wheel) are not sent to Far===
A. In Far, check the setting Options -> Interface settings -> `[x]` Mouse.

A. If Far is launched with «far /w» (System\!WindowMode=1), the presence of the !ConEmu.dll (!ConEmu.x64.dll) plugin is required, otherwise !ConEmu will consider Far as a simple console application (like cmd.exe) which does not need mouse events.

===Q. Why doesn't the !FarHints plugin work?===
A. It must be updated (version 1.0.15 or newer) and it requires the presence of the !ConEmu.dll (!ConEmu.x64.dll) plugin.

===Q. At some point, tabs / Drag-n-Drop / etc. stopped working===
A. Check the 'Info' tab of the 'Settings' dialog. Most likely, the 'Far' / 'Panels' state is not set. Take note - D&D requires the !ConEmu.dll (!ConEmu.x64.dll) plugin.

===Q. Right mouse clicks do not invoke the file/folder context menu.===
A. Is the flag '!RightClick 4 context menu' set? If the checkbox is in the indeterminate state, the menu will appear after a 'long click' - wait for the circle around the mouse cursor to close.

A. For some reason, !ConEmu did not detect the 'panels' state in Far. The !ConEmu.dll (!ConEmu.x64.dll) plugin may not be installed. If it is installed, please send screenshots of !ConEmu ('Info' tab from 'Settings' dialog) and a screen dump file (!ConEmu system menu -> Debug -> Dump screen...).

===Q. Right mouse clicks invoke a graphical context menu, whereas a text one is desired.===
A. Configure the corresponding macro in the 'Far Manager' tab of the 'Settings' window. Example: `F11 e Enter 2` (assumes that the 'e' hotkey is assigned to the EMenu plugin).



==Windows Vista==

===Q. The key combination Ctrl-Win-Alt-Space does not show the !RealConsole.===
A. For some reason, the first Space press is sometimes ignored by Vista. Without releasing Ctrl-Win-Alt, hit Space once more.

===Q. Other console processes hang in Windows Vista.===
A. The fault lies with the !ConIme.exe process. It seems to be required for input of hieroglyphs (Chinese etc.) in console windows. Why is it needed, if input is done in a graphical window? Forbid its startup, or simply rename the file, e.g. to '!ConIme.ex1' (Safe Mode only).
To forbid its startup, apply the following to your registry and reboot:
{{{
[HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Console]
"LoadConIme"=dword:00000000
}}}



==Abnormal termination==

===Q. При завершении консольной программы возникает ошибка вида: Access violation at address 6F78DE5B in module '!ConEmuHk.dll'. Read of address 0071004E===
A. Возможная причина - эта консольная программа порушила свою таблицу импортов. Решение - обратиться к ее разработчику. Для более точного вердикта "кто виноват" можно прислать мне минидамп.

===Q. Far зависает при выходе?===
A. Ни одного Issue на эту тему еще не было создано. Тем не менее, если Far завис при выходе, сделайте дампы памяти процессов Far.exe, ConEmuC`*`.exe и !ConEmu`*`.exe. Как это сделать смотрите ниже. Заархивировать и прислать файлы разработчику. Для создания правильного дампа 32битного приложения в 64битной ОС нужно использовать !ConEmu.

===Q. Как создать дамп памяти приложения?===
A. Windows XP и выше.
   Запустить `"ConEmuC.exe /DEBUGPID=ИД_Процесса"` и в появившемся окне нажать Ctrl-Break. Вам будет предложено сформировать дамп памяти процесса. `ИД_Процесса` можно посмотреть в Диспетчер задач Windows. Если процесс 64битный - запускать нужно "!ConEmuC64.exe".

A. Windows 7 и выше.
   _Внимание! Этот метод допустим только для процессов той же битности, что и OS. То есть создать корректный дамп для 32битного процесса в 64битной OS не получится. Открыть Диспетчер задач Windows, перейти на вкладку 'Процессы' и в контекстном меню выбрать пункт 'Создать файл дампа памяти'._

A. Дампы памяти умеет создавать утилита 'Process Explorer', но _с ее помощью создать корректный дамп для 32битного процесса в 64битной OS также не получится_.

===Q. Что означает: ConEmuC: !CreateFile(CONOUT$) failed, !ErrCode=0x00000005===
A. Запускаемая программа создала и установила в консоли собственный буфер,    созданный как `CreateConsoleScreenBuffer(..., 0/*No sharing*/, ...)`. Просите автора программы создавать буфер корректно, а не только для себя:
{{{
(GENERIC_READ|GENERIC_WRITE, FILE_SHARE_READ|FILE_SHARE_WRITE,...)
}}}



==Unsorted==

===Q. Как сворачивать !ConEmu в трей (в иконку рядом с часами)?===
A. Щелкнуть правой кнопкой по крестику в заголовке. Можно также включить флажок 'Auto minimize to TSA' в настройке. Тогда сворачивание в трей будет происходить автоматически при минимизации.

===Q. Зачем !ConEmu меняет шрифт у реальной консоли?===
A. В реальной консоли должен быть выбран !TrueType шрифт, иначе в !ConEmu вместо юникодных символов (иероглифы, троеточие, копирайты, и пр.) будут отображаться знаки вопроса ('?'). Так устроена консоль Windows.

A. Размер шрифта в реальной консоли должен быть меньше, чем !ConEmu, иначе будет невозможно увеличить размер !ConEmu (в символах) более того размера, который разрешен в Windows для текущего консольного шрифта.

===Q. Почему-то отображается только часть консоли; консоль отображается сдвинутой; не отображается вообще.===

A. В настройке (Settings-!ConEmu.reg) указан слишком большой консольный шрифт.

A. Возможно, выбрана слишком большая ширина окна (в символах).

A. Возможно, по какой-то причине !ConEmu не смог сменить шрифт у реальной консоли. Выберите пункт системного меню окна !ConEmu 'Properties' и на закладке 'Шрифт' выберите !TrueType шрифт и наименьший размер.

===Q. Почему исчезает окно быстрого поиска в панелях при переключении языка?===
A. Так получилось. ФАР убирает окно поиска при потере и получении фокуса. Включите флажок 'Skip focus events' на вкладке 'Features' окна 'Settings'.

===Q. Почему нет кнопок мультиконсоли на панели инструментов?===
A. Включите флажок '!MultiCon' в настройке, или ключ /Multi в командной строке.

===Q. Зависает (в заголовке !ConEmu отображается '...Waiting for result (10 sec)') через некоторое время в FAR появляется меню плагинов (или вызывается какой-то другой плагин).===
A. По какой-то причине !ConEmu не смог определить, что Far не отвечает на запросы пользователя (выполняется команда, ожидание, и т.п.).

===Q. Почему не отображается 'Background image'?===
A. По умолчанию, выбранным изображением замещаются только цвета фона #0 и #1 (обычно это черный и синий). В вашей настройке цвета могут быть другими, для явного указания замещаемых цветов можно использовать параметр "bgImageColors".

A. Если флажок 'Background image (bmp)' в третьем состоянии - картинка отображается только в панелях.

A. Если флажок 'Background image (bmp)' включен и файл картинки выбран - проверьте значение 'Darkening'. Возможно там указан 0.

===Q. Зачем нужно подтверждение 'Press Enter to close console...' отображаемое перед закрытием консоли после завершения всех программ в ней?===
A. Если консоль будет сразу закрываться - вы не увидите ни результата выполнения команды, ни сообщений о возможных ошибках в аргументах.

===Q. Как отключить 'Press Enter to close console...'?===
A. Подтверждение закрытия отключается автоматически после того как:
  * корневая консольная программа проработает более 10 секунд, или
  * запускается FAR, как корневой процесс, и в нем загружен плагин !ConEmu.

A. При запуске команды можно добавить параметр `-new_console:n`.

===Q. Запускается FAR, плагин установлен, но все равно появляется 'Press Enter to close console...'?===
A. Возможно, в качестве корневого процесса запустился на FAR, а cmd.exe. Проверьте список процессов на вкладке 'Info' окна 'Settings'. Причина - некорректная командная строка (аргумент /cmd в !ConEmu), возможна ошибка в некорректных кавычках.

===Q. Почему Shift-Enter в панелях запускает новое окно с реальной консолью, а не в новой вкладке?===
A. Отсутсвует макрос на Shift-Enter или макросы запрещены.

A. Shift-Enter нажат во время 'быстрого поиска' (в этом случае требуется расширенный макрос для макрообласти 'Dialog').

===Q. Почему в консоли отображается прямоугольник (рамка) вместо курсора?===
A. Опция 'Block inactive cursor'. Альтернативная индикация, что фокус не в консоли.

===Q. В табах отображаются квадратики (вместо иероглифов).===
A. По умолчанию, текст закладок отображается шрифтом "Tahoma". Выберите другой шрифт, содержащий требуемые вам символы (например "Arial Unicode MS") на вкладке 'Tabs' окна 'Settings'.

===Q. Для консоли !ConEmu не всплывает перевод !GoldenDict===
A. Скачайте и установите патч для !GoldenDict [http://code.google.com/p/conemu-maximus5/issues/detail?id=517#c3 отсюда].