!MiniDump is a binary file, containing full or brief information about program state at specified moment. !MiniDumps are often named as !CrushDumps. Usually, files has `.dmp` or `.mdmp` extension.

Following information is a copy of answers from [ConEmuFAQ ConEmu FAQ].

=How to create a minidump=
A. Windows XP and up.
   Following command will create a full process memory dump (it may be large enough).
{{{
ConEmuC.exe /DEBUGPID=Your_PID /FULL
}}}
   Or, create a small process memory dump. Yes, it will be small, but may contains not enough information for detecting a problem.
{{{
ConEmuC.exe /DEBUGPID=Your_PID /MINI
}}}

   Substitute _Your_PID_ with the process ID, [MiniDump#How_to_find_Process_ID_(PID) read below]. You will be offered to choose filename for a minidump.

   _*Warning!*_ Before creating dumps of Far Manager please ensure that "far.exe" was started with "/x" switch.

A. Windows 7 and up.
   _Warning! This method only works for processes with the same bitness as the operating system. Therefore, you won't be able to create a working minidump for 32-bit processes when using a 64-bit Windows version. Open Windows' Task Manager, switch to the "Processes" tab, right-click the process, and select "Create dump file"._

A. Process Explorer.
   «Process Explorer» can also create minidumps, however _it will also fail to create a correct minidump for a 32-bit process on a 64-bit system_.

=How to find Process ID (PID)=
A. You can find the Process ID near to Process Name (!ConEmu.exe, cmd.exe, etc.)
  * in Windows' Task Manager;
  * in the !ConEmu status line;
  * in the Info page of !ConEmu [Settings#Info Settings] dialog.

*Note!* Sometimes PID column in the Task Manager window may be hidden, enable it in Task manager settings.
  * Windows 7 and below: Task Manager -> Processes tab -> Menu -> View -> Select Columns -> Check «PID».
  * Windows 8: Task Manager -> Show «More details» -> Processes tab -> Right click on column title -> Check «PID».
