#labels Featured

=!ConEmu has moved to conemu.github.io=

[http://conemu.github.io/ New official ConEmu website]

----
A kick ass terminal is exactly what Windows needs. I'm not talking about !PowerShell, which many agree is crazy powerful, but rather the Terminal itself. We want tabs, we want control, we want better full screen, we want themes, we want more.

While I love Console2, I think I'm ready to switch as I've just been turned on a NEW contender in the Windows Console Wars. It's !ConEmu and it's insane (in a good way.) It's also actively developed.

I haven't even begun to scratch the surface as !ConEmu is one of those applications that is so configurable that you can become lost in the flexibility.

*Scott Hanselman*. Read [http://www.hanselman.com/blog/ConEmuTheWindowsTerminalConsolePromptWeveBeenWaitingFor.aspx full article]

----
First review I have posted in 28 years being a software dev. This app is awesome! I have been using Console2 for a long time, then just stumbled onto this. Have uninstalled Console2. The amount of features available in ConEmu are impressive. Kudos to the devs!!!

*Nikel*. More comments on [http://www.fosshub.com/ConEmu.html fosshub.com]

----
I’ve been using ConEmu for several weeks now and I am far from knowing everything about it, but I already can’t imagine my Windows without it! With ConEmu I can use my favorite tools like Git Bash, cmd, Far Manager, and Notepad++ in one application with great tabbing experience supported with shortcuts.

*Rafał Borowiec*. Read full post on [http://blog.codeleak.pl/2014/10/conemu-windows-console-emulator-with.html blog.codeleak.pl]

----
One of my favorite !ConEmu features is the ability to add custom predefined tasks or command groups to the quick-access menus. These provide customized actions with all the parameters and options you need in one or two clicks. You can then add these tasks to the Windows taskbar (Jump Lists) for easy reuse. !ConEmu will also store commands from your usage history if you so choose.

*Greg Steen*. Read 
[http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/magazine/jj649372.aspx#ctl00_MTContentSelector1_mainContentContainer_ctl02 full review]

----
As a long-time user of Console 2, I switched to !ConEmu recently and have not looked back. This is so much better than anything that has come before it almost defies belief. Plus is is being rapidly developed (thanks Maximus!) with juicy new features appearing often enough to make it feel exciting. If you've not tried this, do it now. I have no hesitation in recommending it as the best console emulator on Windows.

*Charles Roper*. Read more on [http://stackoverflow.com/a/10904494/1405560 stackoverflow.com]

----
!ConEmu feels like a terminal designed for those who really use the command line often.

The cusomization is targeted at the power user to produce an environment exactly the way you want, but it can feel a bit daunting to look at hundred of settings at one time.

*Bill Morefield*. Read full review on [http://windows.appstorm.net/reviews/utilities-reviews/an-even-better-command-line-with-conemu/ AppStorm.net]

----
I’ve fallen in love with !ConEmu, after being introduced to it by a [http://www.hanselman.com/blog/ConEmuTheWindowsTerminalConsolePromptWeveBeenWaitingFor.aspx Scott Hanselman blog post]. While my initial attraction to it was its integration with [http://farmanager.com/ farmanager], that was only its initial selling point. The ability to have one resizable tabbed window to hold all my cmd.exe, powershell.exe and bash.exe consoles is what makes it a killer app...

!ConEmu’s true power is your ability to customize it...

*Justin Dearing*. Read [http://www.justaprogrammer.net/2012/11/03/my-conemu-tasks/ full article]

----
If Console2 is the VW Golf to the stock Windows’ console emulator’s 1200cc VW Bug, then !ConEmu is the VW Phaeton to Console2′s VW Golf. It’s got a lot more features, it’s actively developed, it works well with Far Manager if you miss the Norton Commander days and it’s highly configurable.

*Timo Geusch* Read [http://www.lonecpluspluscoder.com/2014/06/i-prefer-conemu-over-console2-and-so-should-you/ full article]

----
I found out about !ConEmu from Hanselman's post. !ConEmu is the best terminal application for Windows!

*Ashwin*. Read more on [http://meta.stackoverflow.com/a/134414/187198 meta.stackoverflow.com]

----
Very convenient tool to run console apps. The best ever integration with Far Manager (including both stable 2.0 version and new 3.0). For those who use Far on daily basis this is MUST HAVE tool.

*Sergiy Yakovyn*. Read more on [https://sourceforge.net/projects/conemu/reviews/ sourceforge.net]

----
For those who are heavy users of consoles/terminals such as cygwin/bash, PyCmd/Console2...I just discovered this great projec... I have been using Console2 for years, its great, but conemu has so much more features, AND is its in very active development (unlike console2). I have switched already.

*jmwap*, on [http://www.ghisler.ch/board/viewtopic.php?p=253148&sid=bdf234f28ab181938eebe033617a74cf#253148 ghisler.ch/board]

----
That masterpiece brings so much cool features to the Far manager... The most important are one window for other Far, drag'nd'drop,colors and some other less noticable but not less important features

*drweb86*, on [http://www.softpedia.com/progViewOpinions/ConEmu-151121,.html www.softpedia.com]

----
This is an excellent addition to my suite of favourite programs. I've been lamenting the loss of a powerful, beautiful terminal since moving to windows for work reasons. Getting to know powershell introduced powerful, and now, !ConEmu gives me beautiful as well! :) Hotkeyed quake-style dropdown with custom background, multiple tabs, stay on top and partial transparency on lose focus. I am bursting with geeky glee.

*Arild Jacobsen*, on [http://www.hanselman.com/blog/ConEmuTheWindowsTerminalConsolePromptWeveBeenWaitingFor.aspx#1ca49883-20a4-4645-9341-8fea8fc4ccd4 Hanselman's blog]

----
!ConEmu is my favorite free !PowerShell tool. It is a generic multi-console host so you can add as many console-based applications like !PowerShell to it.

Read more on [http://www.powertheshell.com/conemu-free-multiconsole-host/ PowerTheShell.com]

----
!ConEmu is the best one! It's free, full of features and its development is very active.

[http://www.reddit.com/r/software/comments/11k5oy/conemu_a_good_regularly_updated_console_emulator/c6v9kk3 electrotype] on reddit.com

----
Windows Console Replacements, Part 6 – [http://jpsoft.com/blogs/2012/04/windows-console-replacements-part-6-take-command-and-conemu/ Take Command and ConEmu] by jpsoftware

----
!ConEmu review on [http://user1.cooler-online.ru/blog/11782.html cooler-online.ru]

----
Far Manager and !ConEmu. Read on [http://vozerov.wordpress.com/2010/12/27/far-manager/ vozerov.wordpress.com]

----
!ConEmu review on [http://www.rozrobka.com/blog/tools/1418.html www.rozrobka.com]
