====Text selection and clipboard====
!ConEmu allows marking console blocks and streams, copying marked text to Windows Clipboard, pasting from Clipboard to console. [TextSelection Read more...]


====Drag-n-Drop====
You may use dragging either with left or right mouse button.

Right button default behavoiur is to create link, Left button - copy.

Behaviour can be changed holding Ctrl, Shift, or Alt when You drop items to the target.


Drop to command line:
  * Simple drop: paste full file or folder paths, space separated, autoquoted.
  * Ctrl: paste with «edit:» prefix
  * Alt: paste with «goto:» prefix
  * Shift: paste with «view:» prefix


====Right click on Far Manager panels====
You may choose right click behaviour:

  * Simple send right click to console;
  * Show context menu (via EMenu plugin);
  * Short click means simple right click, long click (depress, wait a while, release) means context menu.

*Note*. _EMenu_ plugin must be installed in FAR manager. No macroses or hotkeys are required, but You may choose different way to display context menu, by specifying the macro in !ConEmu settings.
{{{
[HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\ConEmu\.Vanilla]
"RightClickMacro"="@F11 e Enter Enter"
}}}


====Resizing Far Manager panels with mouse====
This is simple now. Drag panels by bottom border, or by left border of the *right* panel.


====Left click on the tab====
!ConEmu tries to activate corresponding FAR window.
This may fails when:
  * Dialog is opens;
  * Modal editor/viewer is open and !ConEmu does not detect this;
  * Macro is recording/playing.


====Right click on the tab====
When You right clicking on the Tab:
  * FAR panels, editor or viewer - !ConEmu sends F10 key to console (You may redefine macro);
  * Other programs - !ConEmu shows dialog with Restart/Terminate/Cancel buttons (same pressing Win-~).


====Right click on Cross button====
Right clicking on the Cross button (window title) will minimize !ConEmu window to the tray.
